[Applause]
we since the outbreak of the war on Gaza
several protests supporting Palestinians
have been held in the South African
cities of Johannesburg and Cape Town
with the grandson of anti aparted icon
and former president Nelson Mandela
voiced his support Palestinians are
counting on each and every one of us to
stand and be counted like they stood
side by side with us the governing
African National Congress credited with
liberating South Africa from an apartate
regime has for decades supported a
two-state solution and a free Palestine
the Palestine Liberation Organization
supported thec during its years in Exile
and Mandela's time in prison while the
government here has expressed regret at
the loss of both Palestinian and Israeli
lives the country's history of apartate
continues to guide the agc's policies
we've called on the International
Community
the United
Nations and all other concerned
International
bodies to make sure that peace is
installed in
Palestine and that the Israeli
government is directed at
withdrawing this
command of getting people out of the
northern part of Gaza because it is in
the end going to amount to almost
genocide Raposa has called for a
peaceful resolution in 2017 South Africa
downgraded its ties with Israel in
response to what it described as human
rights abuses against Palestinians the
minister of international relations and
cooperation Al pandor says Israel is
illegally occupying Palestinian land she
recently spoke to Hamas leaders and
offered humanitarian Aid
but the South African government stance
has been criticized by some pro-israeli
Lobby groups which have reacted with
anger after the massacre of Kamas on the
innocent lives of Israelis in Israel um
we've been exceptionally disappointed
with the government they first of all
didn't they only condemned Israel
originally uh then they only sent
condolences and then eventually they
have condemned Hamas um but I think for
us it's been
incredibly uh concerning that our
minister of Dera Minister of Foreign
Affairs uh n Pand had a call with Kamas
meanwhile anger and criticism against
the Israeli government is growing with
several Civil Society
organizations garnering support for a
global anti- apartate
movement fam Miller Al jazer
Johannesburg make sure to subscribe to
our channel to get the latest news from
Al jazer